Hi guys, welcome back to my channel. My
name is Michaela and today we are
talking about the let them mindset.
Let's get into this. Yes, I know
sometimes we want things so bad like we
want to have that text back. We want to
be invited. We want to be included. We
want to have that special person in our
life. But it just doesn't happen. They
go distance. they don't reply. Sometimes
we want to help them but they don't want
to be helped. There are so many
situations where we want something and
other people do their own way. They do
their own thing, right? The first thing
I want to talk about is let them show
you who they truly are. Always keep in
mind that people show always who they
truly are through their actions, not
words. There are so many guys. There are
so many women. There are so many
business owners on this earth. They just
keep talking and promising
and wanting to give you the world with
words. But their actions show completely
different. And as women, I know we are
drawn and attracted to words. And we
also kind of connect through words. So
we tends to trust words especially if we
are ourselves not giving false promises
to anyone. But you have to know anyone
that keeps promising you something and
their actions show the complete
opposite. You have to trust the actions
and not the words. So if someone is
inconsistent, is selfish, is
uninterested, is
disrespectful, you have to stop to keep
rewriting that story in your head
because of that version that you have of
them in your head. You just have to let
them be who they are and take them as
who they are. If someone keeps
disrespecting you, if someone keeps
being selfish, if someone keeps hurting
you, you have to let them and let them
be alone. And the best thing you can do
is to also stop chasing an explanation
for why they are who they are or why
they don't do what they said they going
to do and just accept that this is the
reality. That's the truth. and you let
them be. If in any case it turns out
that this was a one-time thing or was an
accident or people actually do change,
then they will come back to you and make
things up to you. The next point is let
them leave if they want to. I know
that's a painful topic because me also I
don't want to let people go. I want to
keep people in my life because I
invested in someone. I invested love,
energy, attention. I invested in a
person to stay in my life. But to be
honest, if someone wants to leave, you
have to let them leave. You cannot
convince them to stay. You cannot force
them to stay. You cannot do and say
anything to make them stay. And if you
do, and they do stay, then great. But
believe me, that's not the right thing.
And this person will end up leaving
anyways. Sometimes people are brought
into our lives to bring us some value to
bring us some lesson or to bring us some
blessings. But once that task they had
in our life is done, there is no need
anymore for them in our lives. So
universe is trying to remove them from
us for our best selves. And even if
you're thinking, "Oh, but I want this
person. I love this person. It hurts me
to lose this person." You have to trust
in the higher power that this person is
meant to leave right now. This person is
meant to be distant from you right now.
Doesn't mean that this person is never
ever coming back. Maybe in another time,
maybe in another way, you two are going
to meet again. But if not then it's not
meant to be. And usually when a person
is leaving our life someone else is
coming, someone better is coming.
Someone comes to show us that we are not
missing out on the person we lost. We
are not missing anything and it was for
our highest good. We just have to go
through this period of pain, of hurt,
of letting go. And this is also a big
healing phase. So whenever someone wants
to leave, you have to let them leave
because if you keep holding on them, if
you keep begging them to stay, if you
keep convincing them to stay, you are
just going to end up drained because
obviously this person doesn't want to
stay anymore with you and this person is
also not meant to stay anymore with you.
And now if we're talking about men, if
you have a man that is pulling away,
trying to hold him tighter, trying to
hold him closer will just make him move
and pull away even further. Men
sometimes they need some space. They
need some air to breathe and they need
the feeling that there is distance like
space between you two that then they
start to realize what they actually had
in you and they will come back when you
let them. You have to let a man just be.
Let him pull away. Let him go into his
man cave. Let him do whatever he's
doing. And if it's something to hurt
you, you know this person is not for
you. But if this is your person, he will
come back to you because he realized he
needs you. He wants you. Always keep in
mind the right people do not need to be
convinced by you. The right people know
the value in you and the right people
know what they have with you in their
life. The next thing is let them ignore
your worth. Honestly, if someone doesn't
see your value, there is no point to
keep them in your life. You cannot
convince anyone of your value. And if
you're trying to do that, you decrease
your self-rust. You decrease your
self-worth. You decrease your
self-confidence because you are
explaining to someone why you're worth
something. And you have to think about
that like a luxurious brand. Let's say
I'm walking into Louis Vuitton. I want
to buy something, but I did not find
anything and I find that everything in
Louis Vuitton is not really worth the
price. So, I'm about to walk out that
store. You think anyone is coming after
me and begging me to see the worth? You
think Louis Vuitton reducing their price
is making me value them more? I will be
thinking h that's why they reduce their
prices because they're actually not so
much worth. Always keep in mind your
worth doesn't decrease because someone
else doesn't see it. Your worth is
untouched and is something that cannot
be changed or cannot be lowered by
anyone not seeing it. The next thing is
let them make their own choices. How
many times have I been in a situation
where I was being kind of the therapist
of my friends? I was always giving
advice. I was always giving help when
needed. My friends in the past always
came to me with their struggles. They
were always kind of vomiting all their
problems and struggles onto me and I was
absorbing it and I was giving them
advice how they could do better, how
they could live a better lifestyle, how
they could get out of their struggles,
how they could overcome their
challenges. And all I got was
resistance. They would hear maybe what I
said. They would maybe say, "Yeah, but
yeah, that's right. You're right, but I
can't do this and that." And giving me
more excuses and excuses and excuses
just to let go of more and more
frustration. But they would never take
my advice. So I was always encountering
resistance from my friends. And at some
point I decided to stop this because it
was draining me. I could not always give
advice and tell them how they can do
better when they only give me resistance
when they only were coming to me to
vomit all their problems on me and not
taking any steps to better themselves.
So at some point I said okay I have to
distance myself because I can't deal
with this anymore. It's draining me so
much. I have
to protect myself in a way. So I just
let them do whatever they wanted to do.
They didn't want to listen. They didn't
want to hear to my advice. Fine. I would
step back and I would just let them. And
guess what? Now a few years later, we're
not anymore close. I moved to another
country. But I see them. They sent me
messages and they said, "Girl, I'm so
grateful for your advice. Finally, I
started my drawing career. I started to
sell art. I started to find a new job."
I always get these messages years after
I let them go because sometimes you just
have to let someone go in order to fix
themsel. You are not responsible for
anyone. You cannot save anyone. So you
have to really let them make their own
choices. You can give them advice once
and if they don't want to take it right
now, you can give it more and more and
more times, but they won't take it just
because you say it more often. You have
to give them time and let them do on
their own pace whatever they do,
whatever they want to do. And if it
doesn't align with who you are right
now, if it doesn't do good to you, if it
doesn't align with your lifestyle, just
let them go. If you're not egoistic and
you actually want only the best for this
other person, then letting them go,
letting them take their own decisions is
the best you can do for them, not for
you. The next thing is let them talk.
Whoever it is, people you know, people
you don't know, people on social media,
your parents, your family, boyfriend,
your husband, your friends, whoever, let
them talk. People will always have their
own opinions, but their words will never
define who you are. So, for example, on
my recent reals, I got so many good
comments, but also a lot of bad
comments. a lot of mean comments and
opinions about myself that I'm mean,
that I'm I didn't even read through
everything because I just let them to be
honest. I don't care because I know who
I am. If someone says about me that I'm
mean, okay, then I'm mean for this
person. I really do not care. I do not
care what people say about me,
especially people who I don't know who
they are. Of course, if it's
friendships, if it's people who are
closer to me, it hurts me more. But
still, I let them talk because if
someone talks about me in a bad manner,
in a bad way, then I just know, okay,
that's how you think about me, that's
your opinion about me, we don't need to
be friends. It's fine. I don't need to
be friends with someone that doesn't see
me as who I am. And that's completely
fine. That's why I just let everyone
talk and I do not overexlain when people
are committed to misunderstanding me.
When people are gossiping about me, when
people are twisting my stories, when
your boyfriend is twisting your story in
a disagreement, honestly, let him. I
know we want to talk. We want to explain
what is the actual truth of the story.
But this person that is twisting your
story is just draining you and getting
energy from you explaining what actually
happened. This person knows what
actually happened. At some point you
just have to let him talk. Let her talk.
Let her twist the story. And you're just
okay fine. If that's how you see the
story, I understand. We too have
different viewpoints. We too are maybe
even speaking different languages and
we're not going well along together. The
next thing is let them take you for
granted but only once. If someone takes
you for granted, if someone is
disrespectful, you first of all take
notes. And if it happens again, do not
argue, just leave. Honestly, a person
that is disrespecting you once, it can
happen. But even that is to discuss
about. But a person who is disrespecting
you twice, three times, four times is
going to do it over and over again. And
you trying to change that person, you
trying to make them do differently, make
them apologize, make them see that they
did wrong. Is just you allowing this
disrespect more and more. So if someone
is disrespecting you twice, you just
have to leave. You let them do it, but
you leave. And this is how you show your
boundary. This is how you show enough is
enough. I do not want to have this in my
space anymore. And I have to go.
Unfortunately, that's the only way how
lessons are learned. And this doesn't
matter if it's your boyfriend, your
husband, your best friend, your mom. It
actually doesn't matter. Unfortunately,
lessons are only learned by actions. And
if you do not show action, if you do not
show enough is enough and you are acting
on that, you are just allowing more of
it. The next thing is let them be
unbothered. If someone doesn't show
effort towards you or in the
relationship that you two have together,
then just let them. You cannot
overcompensate by doing more to make
them realize that they are doing too
less. At some point you also really have
to understand that they do not care as
much as you do. And if you understand
they do not care as much as you do, then
you will stop making excuses and you
will see for what it actually is. So the
best response to this is to just match
their energy. Let them do whatever they
are doing. Let them be unbothered by
your relationship and do the same and
you will see if this relationship will
go longer. I had a friend in my past and
I only saw her when I took initiative.
When I called her, when I texted her,
when I took the initiative to see her,
then at some point we saw each other.
But as soon as I matched her energy, I
was just as unbothered as she was. You
think we ever saw each other again? She
noticed maybe 2 years later that I'm
living in another country. And that's
not real friendship. All I lost was
someone that was draining my energy too
much. And I made space for someone else
to come, for new friends to come, for
new friends that I can give energy to.
And of course the same with a romantic
relationship. If you are with a partner
that simply is unbothered by you, that
simply doesn't take initiative to see
you, to talk to you, to make you happy,
then this person obviously is not that
much invested in you and this person is
maybe even taking you for granted and
for everything you do. So if you stop
doing whatever you're doing, if you stop
reaching out, if you stop overgiving, if
you stop
oversharing, that person at some point
will notice that something is missing in
their life because all of that energy
that you put into that person, you're
drawing back to yourself. That man will
reach to a point where he will think,
"Wait a second, something is missing in
my life." The same is with sharing
stories or sharing things from your
life. For example, if your husband is
not sharing anything with you anymore,
not sharing how his day was, not sharing
how he's feeling, not sharing anything,
but you keep asking him, you keep
sharing how you are feeling, how your
day was, what your plans are, and there
is nothing coming back. Sit back and let
him. And you will see that at some point
he will come to you and will ask you. He
will ask you how your day was. He will
ask you if you need something. He will
be more attentive to you because you are
drawing back and you're sitting back and
letting the other person do whatever
he's doing. And the next and last thing
I want to talk about is let them doubt
you. How often were people doubting your
decisions, your dreams, your
desires? How many times have you been
doubted and then you chose differently?
Some people unfortunately will never
believe in you until they see results.
So, just let them doubt you. Try to not
take it too personally because their
doubts is mostly their fear projected
onto you. And they probably also do not
want to see you having a good life, see
you winning, see you having the best
love, see you having an amazing partner,
see you having a lot of money and so on.
It costs so much energy trying to prove
someone wrong, trying to convince
someone that is doubting you. So best
you can do is to just let them doubt you
and let them stay where they are. You
don't need to share anything of your
process, of your path. You just let them
and that's the only way you can actually
protect you yourself, your desires, your
dreams and your life. All in all, the
most important thing whenever you are in
a situation where people don't do what
you want them to do, what you wish they
would do, let
them. Let them. And it will turn out
always for your best. If it turns out
the person is a really bad person, it's
for your best because this person has to
leave. And if it turns out that this
person had just good intentions with
you, you will know about it when it's
the right time. But in the meantime, you
didn't waste all your energy trying to
convince or force someone do something
they are not ready with at that moment.
Anyways guys, I hope that could help. I
hope you can take something from it in
your daily. And I hope you can really
implement this. let them mindset and
make your life better and easier. Thank
you so much for watching. I love you so
much and I see you in my next video.
Bye-bye.